README.md, before:

[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL%20v3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/FIU-Neuro/brainconn.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/FIU-Neuro/brainconn)
[![Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/FIU-Neuro/brainconn/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/FIU-Neuro/brainconn)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/brainconn/badge/?version=latest)](http://brainconn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

# Brain Connectivity Toolbox for Python version 0.5.0

Author: Roan LaPlante <rlaplant@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu>

## Copyright information

This program strictly observes the tenets of fundamentalist Theravada Mahasi
style Buddhism.  Any use of this program in violation of these aforementioned
tenets or in violation of the principles described in the Visuddhimagga Sutta
is strictly prohibited and punishable by extensive Mahayana style practice.
By being or not being mindful of the immediate present moment sensations
involved in the use of this program, you confer your acceptance of these terms
and conditions.

Note that the observation of the tenets of fundamentalist Theravada Mahasi
style Buddhism and the Visuddhimagga Sutta is optional as long as the terms and
conditions of the GNU GPLv3+ are upheld.

## Packages used

BCTPY is written in pure python and requires only `scipy` and `numpy`. `scipy` is required for a couple of functions for its statistical and linear algebra
packages which have some features not available in `numpy` alone. If you don't
have `scipy`, most functions that do not need `scipy` functionality will still work.

Note that graphs must be passed in as `numpy.array`s rather than `numpy.matrix`es. Other constraints/ edge cases of the adjacency matrices (e.g. self-loops, negative weights) behave similarly to the matlab functions.

A small number of functions (notably including network-based statistics, a
nonparametric test for differences in undirected weighted graphs from different
populations) currently require networkx, though this should be changed at some
point in the future.

Nosetests is used for the test suite. The test suite is not complete.

## About `bctpy` and other authors

BCT is a matlab toolbox with many graph theoretical measures off of which `bctpy`
is based.  I did not write BCT (apart from small bugfixes I have submitted)
and a quality of life improvements that I have taken liberties to add.
With few exceptions, `bctpy` is a direct translation of matlab code to python.

`bctpy` should be considered beta software, with BCT being the gold standard by
comparison. I did my best to test all functionality in `bctpy`, but much of it is
arcane math that flies over the head of this humble programmer. There *are*
bugs lurking in `bctpy`, the question is not whether but how many. If you locate
bugs, please submit them to me at rlaplant@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu.

Many thanks to Stefan Fuertinger for his assistance tracking down a number of
bugs. Stefan Fuertinger has a similar software package dealing with brain
network functionality at http://research.mssm.edu/simonyanlab/analytical-tools/

Many thanks to Chris Barnes for his assistance in documenting a number of issues and facilitating a number of test cases.

Credit for writing BCT (the matlab version) goes to the following list of
authors, especially Olaf Sporns and Mika Rubinov.

- Olaf Sporns
- Mikail Rubinov
- Yusuke Adachi
- Andrea Avena
- Danielle Bassett
- Richard Betzel
- Joaquin Goni
- Alexandros Goulas
- Patric Hagmann
- Christopher Honey
- Martijn van den Heuvel
- Rolf Kotter
- Jonathan Power
- Murray Shanahan
- Andrew Zalesky

In order to be a bit more compact I have removed the accreditations from the
docstrings each functions. This does not in any way mean that I wish to take
credit from the individual contributions. I have moved these accreditations
to the credits file.


[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

Commit message:

Update CHANGELOG and README.
We need to remember to log any substantial changes (i.e., changes to
the functionality of the library) in the CHANGLE *as they are merged*.

README.md, after:

# brainconn (brain connectivity) library

The `brainconn` Python library is a fork of `bctpy`, which in turn in a Python implementation of the `BCT` MATLAB toolbox. `bctpy` was written by [Roan LaPlante](https://github.com/aestrivex) and is a wonderful tool. However, there were certain elements of the implementation that we wanted to change, so we chose to develop independently on a fork, which we renamed to `brainconn` to allow separate releases on PyPi and the like.

[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL%20v3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/FIU-Neuro/brainconn.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/FIU-Neuro/brainconn)
[![Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/FIU-Neuro/brainconn/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/FIU-Neuro/brainconn)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/brainconn/badge/?version=latest)](http://brainconn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

## About

`brainconn` implements graph theoretic measures in Python.

### Why graph theory?



## Copyright information

`bctpy` was released with the [GNU GPLv3+ license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0), which we adhere to as well. Changes made since splitting `brainconn` from `bctpy` are tracked in the [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md).

## Citing brainconn

We eventually plan to publish `brainconn` releases on Zenodo, which will make specific versions citable. Moreover, the algorithms employed in `brainconn` (as well as the `BCT` MATLAB toolbox) should also be cited when used. We use [duecredit](https://github.com/duecredit/duecredit) to make compiling and annotating these citations easier. If you use `brainconn`, please make sure to run your code with `duecredit` before publication to make sure you have a comprehensive list of the software and papers that should be cited. You can do this by running your Python script (e.g., `run_brainconn.py`) from the command line like so: `python -m duecredit run_brainconn.py`.

## Dependencies

At minimum, `brainconn` requires `numpy`, `scipy`, and `networkx`. While `bctpy` has limited dependencies to these three packages, `brainconn` is open to additional dependencies, as long as they are relatively stable and well-tested.

`pytest` is used for the test suite. The test suite is not complete.

## About `bctpy` and other authors

BCT is a matlab toolbox with many graph theoretical measures off of which `bctpy`
is based.  I did not write BCT (apart from small bugfixes I have submitted)
and a quality of life improvements that I have taken liberties to add.
With few exceptions, `bctpy` is a direct translation of matlab code to python.

`bctpy` should be considered beta software, with BCT being the gold standard by
comparison. I did my best to test all functionality in `bctpy`, but much of it is
arcane math that flies over the head of this humble programmer. There *are*
bugs lurking in `bctpy`, the question is not whether but how many. If you locate
bugs, please submit them to me at rlaplant@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu.

Many thanks to Stefan Fuertinger for his assistance tracking down a number of
bugs. Stefan Fuertinger has a similar software package dealing with brain
network functionality at http://research.mssm.edu/simonyanlab/analytical-tools/

Many thanks to Chris Barnes for his assistance in documenting a number of issues and facilitating a number of test cases.

Credit for writing BCT (the matlab version) goes to the following list of
authors, especially Olaf Sporns and Mika Rubinov.

- Olaf Sporns
- Mikail Rubinov
- Yusuke Adachi
- Andrea Avena
- Danielle Bassett
- Richard Betzel
- Joaquin Goni
- Alexandros Goulas
- Patric Hagmann
- Christopher Honey
- Martijn van den Heuvel
- Rolf Kotter
- Jonathan Power
- Murray Shanahan
- Andrew Zalesky

In order to be a bit more compact I have removed the accreditations from the
docstrings each functions. This does not in any way mean that I wish to take
credit from the individual contributions. I have moved these accreditations
to the credits file.


[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)
